Your budget will depend on the scope of your study and the limits set by
the funding agency, but for Capstone, don't worry about how big or small
it is. Here are some helpful hints.

1.  Decide how many years your study will require (1-3 years is typical
    but can be longer).

2.  Decide whom to hire (undergraduate, graduate, or medical students,
    post-docs, doctors, research assistants), and how many of each.
    **Assume that you will [not]{.underline} do much of the work and the
    grant will pay only part of your salary**. Use the following rates:

    a.  Your salary (based on an assistant professor at NU) -- \$124,000
        for 8 months.

    b.  Undergraduate -- \$4500 per semester (\$7500 for summer
        semesters).

    c.  Graduate or medical student -- \$31,000 per academic year (plus
        half for summer).

    d.  Post-doc -- \$50,000 for first year, + \$2,000 for each
        additional year.

    e.  Medical doctor -- you will not hire one full-time. Pay per
        service, if you require something not normally covered by
        insurance.

    f.  Research assistant -- \$42,000 (average for Boston, but high
        nationally).

**Some participants receive fees for services (may be covered by
insurance), not a salary, or their salary may be paid by the
institution. Don't hire anyone full-time if not needed.**

3.  Calculate the cost of fringe benefits for full-time personnel you
    want to hire. Fringe benefits cover health care and other expenses
    and are often required by law.

    a.  The cost for a professor, doctor, or post-doc is 23.4% of their
        salary.

    b.  The cost for part-time, temp, or student is 7.65%.

4.  Calculate an approximate annual cost for "supplies and services."
    This cost will vary greatly, depending on the type of project you
    plan to do. If it is a laboratory-based project, assume between
    \$10-20,000 per year. This money covers consumable supplies
    (chemicals, pipettes, etc.), and permanent items under \$5,000 (such
    as microscopes), but not large one-time purchases. Just make an
    educated (or uneducated) guess.

5.  **Travel costs.** **You will all need to travel to at least one
    professional meeting to present your results.** Since you may not
    know where the meeting will be held, you can assume it is at least
    halfway across the country and that you will spend 2-4 nights at a
    hotel. If you are doing a "field-based" project, you need to get to
    and from your field site(s). Calculate the airfare costs involved
    and/or the car mileage. Charge 45 cents per mile for car travel.

6.  **Direct and indirect costs** -- **direct costs** include all costs
    directly used for the research, including salaries, fringe benefits,
    supplies, travel, and other costs. Think of **indirect costs** as
    rent and utilities; the institution at which you work provides
    space, electricity, water, etc., and the indirect costs are
    considered compensation. This money does not go directly to paying
    for your research but is given to your institution. If you plan to
    conduct the work on-site the indirect cost rate is 57% of the total
    direct costs; if you will conduct all work off-site, the indirect
    cost rate is 26%.

7.  **Double-check your calculations**. You can crosscheck calculations
    by making sure that the final total adds up both horizontally and
    vertically (or use Excel and copy-paste). Make sure that you are not
    counting items more than once. There are many subtotals involved --
    some students in the past have added salaries twice by adding
    individual salaries together with total salaries when calculating
    the subtotal of direct costs.

8.  When performing calculations, **round [up]{.underline} to the
    nearest 500 dollars.**

**As part of the budget, you must provide budget justification.**
Clearly label this section and provide at least general details of what
you are requesting funding for that may not be obvious.

**Here is an example of a budget, including the budget justification**
(you may copy and paste to start with this as a model, or construct your
own):

PROPOSED BUDGET

  ------------------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
  **Budget Item**           **Year 1**      **Year 2**      **Total**

  PI/co-PI Salary           \$12,000        \$12,000        \$24,000

  Graduate Research         \$0             \$0             \$0
  Assistants                                                

  Post-doctoral Research    \$50,000        \$52,000        \$102,000
  Associate                                                 

  Undergraduate Students    \$9,000         \$0             \$9,000

  **Total Salaries**        \$71,000        \$64,000        \$135,000

  Fringe Benefits           \$15,500        \$15,000        \$30,500

  Supplies & Services       \$5,000         \$5,000         \$10,000

  Travel                    \$2,500         \$1,500         \$4,000

  Other costs               \$15,000        \$7,500         \$22,500

  **Total Direct Costs**    \$109,000       \$93,000        \$202,000

  Indirect Costs (Overhead) \$62,000        \$53,000        \$115,000

  Indirect Cost Rate (%)    57%             57%             57%

  **Total**                 \$171,000       \$146,000       \$317,000
  ------------------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------

# Budget Justification

**Note: statements in brackets \[ \] are for your clarification; do not
include them in your budget.**

**Senior Personnel & Fringe Benefits.** The PI is requesting 0.75 months
summer salary at \$12,000 plus fringe benefits (23.4%). \[Note:
\$124,000 ÷ 8 × 0.75 = \$11,625 rounded up to \$12,000. Another option
is to estimate the amount of time you will spend on this project (as a
PI you will have several projects going at the same time). So, you might
estimate that you will spend 20% of your time on the proposed work and
ask for \$124,000 × 20% = \$24,800 rounded up to \$25,000.\]

**Other Personnel & Fringe Benefits.** Support for one Post-Doctoral
Research Associate is requested to carry out the genetic engineering
work under Specific Aim #2. The annual stipend is \$50,000 for Year 1
and \$52,000 for Year 2, with a 23.4% fringe benefits rate. Also,
support for one undergraduate student for 2 semesters in year 1 is
requested to maintain cell stocks and to perform PCR work for Specific
Aim #1. \[Note: calculate these based on the rounded values, and then
round the fringe benefits up. So, for example, salaries on a 23.4%
benefit get 23.4% x (12,000 + 50,000) = \$14,508, and the undergraduate
gets 7.65% x 9,000 = \$688.50. The total fringe benefits are \$14,508 +
\$688.50 = \$15,196.50 which rounds up to \$15,500.\]

**Supplies & Services.** \$5000 per year is requested to cover expenses
for culture maintenance and gene transfer experiments. This will be used
for culture flasks, water filters, and other consumables.

**Travel.** The PI requests \$2500 in travel funds for Year 1 to work
with the Neil Bruce laboratory in England and to obtain the
nitroreductase gene construct. Travel funds for Year 2 will also be used
to present research results at national scientific conferences.

**Other Expenses.** The PI is requesting a \$22,500 subcontract to the
Neil Bruce laboratory at Cambridge University to assist with the
insertion and expression of nitroreductase gene constructs in *Porphyra
spp.* The subcontract budget is \$15,000 for Year 1, and \$7500 for Year
2.

**Indirect Costs.** The Modified Indirect Costs Rate at Northeastern
University is 57%, including subcontracts. \[Wow! Over a third of your
grant money goes right through your fingers to the university!
