**Biology Capstone Student Questionnaire**

Answers to the following questions will both enlighten me about you
(past, present, and future!) and may be used in assigning consultants.
Save this completed file and upload it to Canvas.

1\. Name (including any nickname or pronunciation tips) and preferred
pronouns:

They/them/theirs She/her/hers He/him/his

(Indicate however you want -- bold, highlight, italicize, underline,
colorize, or add others)

2\. When do you expect to graduate:

3\. Major (boldface or underline):

Biology Cell and Molecular Biology Biochemistry BNS Marine Bio

4\. Did you transfer to Northeastern from another school or to this
major from another major? If so, from where or which major? **Do you
have a second major, combined major, or a minor, and, if so, in what?**

5\. Please list all the courses you are taking **this** semester:

[Course title]{.underline} [Instructor]{.underline}

6\. List any online courses you have taken previously (if any).

7\. List some of the biology electives you have taken.

8\. List some of the non-biology electives you have taken.

9\. You will meet with a consultant at least once during the semester to
discuss your proposal. I will assign biology faculty for those who need
one, though you should try to find someone you know who is knowledgeable
about your topic. Your consultant can be anyone involved in research who
has a Ph.D. or equivalent degree, or considerable experience in the
pertinent research (perhaps someone from a past co-op or non-Bio
department research lab). I assign consultants after the first draft is
submitted, though if you have someone outside of the Biology department
who has agreed to work with you, then you can meet with them any time.

Tell me who you would like to work with, or any biology faculty you
would prefer not to be paired with.

10\. Write a brief description of what you have done for experiential
learning (also mention summer jobs or internships). If you have worked
in a research lab, include that, describing what you did (briefly) and
what this experience was like for you.

11\. I would like to arrange times for individual meetings (either
virtual or in-person) and possibly for presentation times (more on this
later). Please list times that you would be available (if none, write
"none"). If you are working full time, let me know of morning, evening,
or lunchtime hours when we might be able to arrange to meet virtually.

Mondays:

Tuesdays:

Wednesdays:

Thursdays:

Fridays:

12\. What do you plan to do when you graduate? Discuss immediate plans,
long-term goals, as well as hopes and dreams.

13\. Tell me a little about yourself. Where have you lived? What are
your hobbies, interests, or passions? What interesting things have
happened in your life? What is your favorite color? Anything that will
help me to get to know you better (feel free to add pictures or links).

14\. I have your picture from the registrar, but it's probably 4-5 years
old by now. Could you share a more recent photo? Insert it below.
Thanks!
