Guidelines for the second draft

Note: this assignment consists of 4 sections of your proposal (this list
is the order in which they should appear, though not the order in which
you should work on them).

1)  Specific aims & objectives -- write this second, based on your
    Background

2)  Background & significance -- write this first, based on your First
    draft

3)  Research design -- write this third, since you need the aims

4)  References -- let EndNote do the work for you using the Cite While
    You Write function

**Submit all as one file, with a title page, headings (and subheadings
in the Background), and clear breaks between each of the sections** (use
the section titles given above).

Guidelines for the Specific aims & objectives (work on this section
after the Background)

**Purpose:** The aims are general statements of what you hope to learn
or accomplish. The objectives describe how you plan to achieve your
aims. This section is the first (and possibly the only) part of your
proposal that will be read. If this section is not compelling, your
proposal may be rejected without being read in its entirety. **Think of
it as an abstract for your proposal.**

**Content:** The Specific aims & objectives section should contain (in
this order):

1)  a narrative summarizing the **general background, importance, and
    long-term goals** of your research (you don't need to go into detail
    about past research),

2)  an **explicit statement of the working hypothesis** (may be part of
    the narrative),

3)  a **list of the aims (1-3, more are fine)**, along with **the
    objectives by which you will accomplish** them. Sometimes these are
    included in the narrative, but I would like to see them stated
    separately for clarity (*e.g.*, "Specific Aim #1: to determine...").
    While your hypothesis is a firm statement of what you expect, the
    specific aims are not. Use language that allows for any results
    (*e.g.*, "to determine whether..." rather than "to show that...").

4)  By convention, do not cite sources in the Specific aims section.
    Statements needing support will include citations in the Background
    section

Guidelines for the Background & significance (work on this section
first)

**Purpose:** to explain the importance for funding your proposed
research **thoroughly and concisely**, to put your work in **context**
with previous studies, and to explain the potential **contribution** of
this research to the field, while also establishing your expertise.
**There will be redundancy between the Background and the narrative in
the Specific aims section (even exact repetitions of key phrases) --
this is fine.**

**Content**: The Background & significance section should tell a story
(roughly in this order):

-   why the area of research is important (**the big picture**),

-   the state of **existing knowledge**, particularly as it pertains to
    your proposed work,

-   a description of **the basic problem** to be addressed,

-   how your project will **fill gaps or extend on previous studies**
    (what is **unique about it?**),

-   **significance** of this research -- explain contributions of your
    research by bringing your narrative back to the big picture.

# Suggestions for the Background and the narrative in the Specific aims

1)  Remember Lewis Carroll's advice: "Begin at the beginning and go on
    till you come to the end; then stop." **Don't start by describing
    your proposed research** (the end); you need to **grab the reader's
    attention and give background to introduce your topic**.

2)  Make a compelling case for your proposed research project.

    a.  Why is the topic important? **Start with "the big picture"** --
        a broad topic will be of interest to more people, and therefore
        is more likely to be funded.

    b.  **Use subheadings** and short paragraphs to ease navigation (but
        not too short; 2 sentences â‰  a paragraph). Subheadings **need to
        be informative** (not just "Past research"). Sentence fragments
        work well.

    c.  Use **boldface for important concepts** within paragraphs so
        that they stand out.

3)  **Demonstrate familiarity with your field by interpreting results
    from past studies.**

    a.  Avoid old research ("too old" depends on the field and the point
        you are supporting).

    b.  Use citations to support your statements, **even if you did not
        get the ideas from a specific source**. You may have to look for
        support from articles after writing.

    c.  Use citations to demonstrate familiarity with relevant
        publications. **Discuss in detail** papers key to your research.
        **You must cite at least 10 sources overall (and therefore
        should aim to cite 20,** including some in the Research design).

4)  Cite and **paraphrase** correctly, constructively, and often. **Do
    not use direct quotations.**

5)  **You should have at least some in-text citations containing
    multiple sources** -- if not, you may be failing either to
    synthesize information or to review the literature satisfactorily.

6)  You may restate your hypothesis in the Background & significance,
    but do not need to do so. **You must state your working hypothesis
    in the Specific aims & objectives section**.

7)  **Conclude with a short summary discussing the long-term goals of
    your research**. A sentence or two is usually plenty.

Guidelines for the Research design (work on this section after you've
written the specific aims)

**Purpose:** to set a plan for your research and to explain how to
interpret the possible outcomes.

**Content:** state the specific aims, explain your methods and
rationale, and discuss all possible outcomes including how you would
interpret them in relation to your hypothesis. You can decide how best
to organize this information.

***Restate each specific aim explicitly at some point (e.g., Specific
aim #1: to determine...).***

***Methods and rationale**:*

-   Remember the what, how, and why:

    -   Relate your methods to your specific aims (**WHAT** you intend
        to accomplish).

    -   Explain your methods clearly, with appropriate support from
        references (**HOW**).

    -   Describe the reasons for choosing at least [some]{.underline}
        methods (**WHY**).

Describe your methods and how these methods address your research
questions. You do not need to go into detail about the "how" of your
experiments; provide enough detail so I know what type of work you are
proposing. **Think about the details that must be done a specific way,
as well as those that may have some flexibility.** You are not writing a
lab protocol or a methods section; in research, what you end up doing
often deviates from the original plan.

For the rationale, think how your design relates to your hypothesis. Why
did you choose these specific methods? Consider the rationale for your
organism, technique, or population. I don't expect that you know the
rationale for all methods; I am looking for one or two examples.

**You must consider if there are potential problems**. You should
address concerns that might be raised about your research "not working."
Two good defenses that often work:

-   Win/win: whatever outcome you get, you learn something. Either way,
    you know more than you did before, possibly ruling out some
    hypotheses.

-   High likelihood of success. If others have done similar experiments,
    and achieved results, you can cite their results to support the high
    likelihood of your success.

***Anticipated results**:* these are **not** a description of what you
*hope* or even predict will happen, but an explanation of **how you
would interpret EACH possible outcome**.

> **Remember to discuss all potential outcomes of your experiments.**

-   Results that support your hypotheses.

-   Results that do not support your hypotheses. Discuss how you would
    interpret these results, and what they mean for your hypothesis
    (reject or reassess).

> You do not need to address each outcome individually -- some may be
> discussed as a group (e.g., "Any results that do not show increased
> expression in even one of the genes tested would not support our
> hypothesis...").

Formatting:

1.  Include the title page (available on Canvas as a Word file).

2.  Recommended lengths:

    a.  Specific aims & objectives: 2-3 pages double-spaced.

    b.  Background & significance: at least 4 pages double-spaced (no
        maximum).

    c.  Research design: varies depending on the proposal (at least 2-3
        pages).

3.  **Write to a biology-literate audience who may or may not work in
    your specific field.** Abbreviations should be spelled out when
    first used in each section, then used consistently throughout.
    Explain jargon specific to your field. You need to show that you
    understand the terminology used in your field.

4.  By convention, you **do not include citations in the Specific Aims
    and Objectives section**. You [can]{.underline} make statements that
    need support; just repeat them in the Background and Significance
    with the appropriate citation. **You should try to cite at least a
    few sources in the Research design and need a total of 10 overall
    (but aim for 20).**

5.  **Cite using EndNote** (or other reference software) **according to
    APA 6^th^ or 7^th^ edition.**

6.  Use **double-space with 1-inch margins all around** and a 12-point
    font. Be aware that the default left and right margins for Word are
    1.25 inches (I changed my default to 1").

7.  Use **first-line indent** for paragraphs, with no blank line between
    paragraphs.

8.  **Remember to convert the file to a pdf**. I will take points off if
    you do not.

**Grading will be based on these guidelines (as well as on good writing
practices). Use these as a checklist before submitting your work.**
